# Testing
Testing was performed throughout the development of the site, including after every feature was added and again after large cumulative changes were made. The form the testing took varied and involved several different tools.

## Manual testing
This was the most commonly performed testing I performed. Each time a feature was added I would check the browser rendered page on a few different browsers, whilst also using the developer tools to check that the elements and their stlying were as they should be. I would also use the responsivity modes of the devtools to check how a given feature or entire page would behave under different aspect ratios and screen sizes. I have tried the site on mobile, tablet, laptop and desktop devices of differing sizes. And for each device cateogory I have tried the most commonly used browsers; namely  Mozilla Firefox, chrome, samsung internet, safari, microsoft edge, opera and brave. I have also tested throughout that all interactive elements such as internal and external links function. For the form pages, I have tested filling out the forms as well as checking the functionality of the reset and submit buttons and the form submission response page. I further tested that submission could not occur without completing the required fields, and that the email input validation works as it should. For the FAQ page I have ensured the toggles work as expected. I have also inspected the sticky times column feature in the event of a scrolling table, and I have ensured images load correctly and and remain unstretched or distorted, as well as that the logo animation works. Finally I have by disabling JavaScript using the devtools tested the no script element present in the tutor u logo.

### Manual testing detected issues
To illustrate how manual testing was used to discover any issues and fix them where possible, I will list a few examples:
- A media query was being used for the landing page to adjust the size ratio of each grid row, in order to remove a large space between the footer and the end of the bottom row content that would appear on wider screens. When changing the row sizes, which initially had the ratio 1fr:1fr, percentage units and fraction (fr) units were mixed giving 60%:1fr which led to the second row content for certain widths overflowing its intended space as was observed in the browser. This was resolved by changing the percentage units to a desired fr equivalant namely the ratio 6fr:4fr.
- It was noticed in the browser devtools and on mobile devices that the header was causing horizontal overflow and thus horizontal scroll despite having a width of 100vw. I then learnt that the viewport units do not take into account the space occupied by the vertical scroll bar. The issue was resolved by changing the width value to 100% which takes into account the actual available space.
- After having changed the file name of the now called tutor_booking_form file I forgot to change the href's of links to the page. By testing one of the links I realised all such links were broken, so I checked the source code and then my mistake was obvious. To fix the issue I merely adjusted the href's.
- It was discovered that the behaviour of the feedback for unfilled or incorrectly filled form inputs varied depending on the browser. In particular for firefox on mobile, there was no obvious feedback which informed the user that any required fields had been not been filled or filled incorrectly. This is obviously a feature of the browser, and will have to be combated with my own coded feedback that resembles the feedback given by other browsers, for example scrolling the page up to the unfilled inputs and giving them focus if not an error message. I will be able to do this once I have learnt JavaScript.
- Again when viewing the site on different browsers on tablet devices, the green checkbox hex symbol in the submission form page did not always display fully correctly. I have yet to discover why this is the case, but may in the future seek an alternative, perhaps, font awesome icon  to replace it, which will hopefully resolve the issue.